AppArmor, Ingress, and Security Points (#789)
home-assistant/developers.home-assistant: docs/add-ons/presentation.md

As for the Home Assistant Operating System implementation, you can activate your own custom AppArmor profile by putting a `apparmor.txt` file into your add-on folder. Adding your own `apparmor.txt` will load that file as the primary AppArmor profile instead of the default implementation. On top of knowing your Add-on will run in a constrained and effective manner, writing your own custom `apparmor.txt` file will earn your Add-on a security point after your Add-on is installed, thus improving your user's confidence and perception of your Add-on.

An apparmor.txt goes in the same folder as your config.json file. Below is an example `apparmor.txt`. Replace `ADDON_SLUG` with the slug defined in your config. 

apparmor.txt
```txt
#include <tunables/global>

profile ADDON_SLUG flags=(attach_disconnected,mediate_deleted) {
  #include <abstractions/base>
  
  # Capabilities
  capability,
  file,

  capability setgid,

>   capability setuid,

Reviewer: While setting these in general Docker conventions, in our ecosystem the use is not advised. I would therefore recommend them to be removed from the default example.

  # S6-Overlay
  /bin/** ix,
  /usr/bin/** ix,
  /usr/lib/bashio/** ix,
  /etc/s6/** rix,

>   /run/s6/** rix,

Reviewer: Why the added read bit? Should not be needed (it isn't even part of or default profile).

Author: Set to ix in [ AppArmor.txt permission reduction](https://github.com/home-assistant/developers.home-assistant/pull/789/commits/8c1fa0e5827ae98d7e860184791f5b6cad823fd8). Verified operational by testing.

  /etc/services.d/** rwix,
  /etc/cont-init.d/** rwix,
  /etc/cont-finish.d/** rwix,

>   /init rix,

Reviewer: Which init?

Author: Removed in [ AppArmor.txt permission reduction]https://github.com/home-assistant/developers.home-assistant/pull/789/commits/8c1fa0e5827ae98d7e860184791f5b6cad823fd8

  /var/run/** mrwkl,

>   /var/run/ mrwkl,

Reviewer: The use of read/write/locks I would get, but, links and executable mapping might be a bit to put here that wide.

Author: Set to RW in [ AppArmor.txt permission reduction](https://github.com/home-assistant/developers.home-assistant/pull/789/commits/8c1fa0e5827ae98d7e860184791f5b6cad823fd8). Verified operational by testing.

  /bin/** ix,
  /usr/bin/** ix,
  /usr/lib/bashio/** ix,
  /etc/s6/** ix,
  /run/s6/** ix,
  /etc/services.d/** rwix,
  /etc/cont-init.d/** rwix,
  /etc/cont-finish.d/** rwix,
  /var/run/** rw,

  # suppress ptrace denials when using 'docker ps' or using 'ps' inside a container
  ptrace (trace,read) peer=docker-default,

  # docker daemon confinement requires explict allow rule for signal
  signal (receive) set=(kill,term) peer=/usr/bin/docker,

  # Access to hardware devices
  # /dev/ttyUSB0 rw,
  
  # Access to Options.json and other files within your addon
  /data/** rw,

  # 

> 

Reviewer: Stale comment

  /etc/services.d/** rwix,
  /etc/cont-init.d/** rwix,
  /etc/cont-finish.d/** rwix,
  /var/run/** rw,

  # suppress ptrace denials when using 'docker ps' or using 'ps' inside a container
  ptrace (trace,read) peer=docker-default,

  # docker daemon confinement requires explict allow rule for signal
  signal (receive) set=(kill,term) peer=/usr/bin/docker,

  # Access to hardware devices
  # /dev/ttyUSB0 rw,
  
  # Access to Options.json and other files within your addon
  /data/** rw,
}
```

## Ingress

Ingress allow users to access the add-on web interface via the Home Assistant UI. Authentication is handled by Home Assistant, so neither the user nor the add-on developer will need to care about the security or port forwarding. Users love this feature! It connects your user directly to the add-on and can provide a seamless UX within Home Assistant and grants your add-on 2 points of security.

Here are the requirements of Ingress:

> - Ingress must be enabled.  Set `ingress: true` in [config.json](/docs/add-ons/configuration#add-on-config).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Ingress must be enabled. Set `ingress: true` in [`config.json`](/docs/add-ons/configuration#add-on-config).
```

> - Ingress must be enabled.  Set `ingress: true` in [config.json](/docs/add-ons/configuration#add-on-config).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Ingress must be enabled.  Set `ingress: true` in [`config.json`](/docs/add-ons/configuration#add-on-config).
```

Author: fixed.

> - Your server may run on port 8099.  If it does not run on 8099, you must set `ingress_port: PORT_NUMBER` in [config.json](/docs/add-ons/configuration/#add-on-config) to match your configuration.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Your server may run on port 8099. If it does not run on 8099, you must set `ingress_port: PORT_NUMBER` in [`config.json`](/docs/add-ons/configuration/#add-on-config) to match your configuration.
```

- Only connections from `172.30.32.2` must be allowed. You should deny access to all other IP addresses within your add-on server. 

> - Users are previously authenticated via Home Assistant.  Authentication is not required. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Users are previously authenticated via Home Assistant. Authentication is not required. 
```

:::tip

> Configuration of path and port information may be queried via  [Addons info api endpoint](/docs/api/supervisor/endpoints/#addons). If the Home Assistant url is required by your addon, Ingress adds a request header `X-Ingress-Path` which may be filtered to obtain the base url. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Configuration of path and port information may be queried via [add-ons info API endpoint](/docs/api/supervisor/endpoints/#addons). If the Home Assistant URL is required by your addon, Ingress adds a request header `X-Ingress-Path` which may be filtered to obtain the base URL. 
```

:::

Ingress API gateway supports the following:

- HTTP/1.x
- Streaming content
- Websockets

> ## Basic Ingress Example with Nginx

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Basic Ingress Example with Nginx

```

> The following is a basic ingress implementation with an Nginx server.  This contains an example`Dockerfile`, `config.json`, and `ingress.conf` configuration.  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following is a basic ingress implementation with an Nginx server. This contains an example`Dockerfile`, `config.json`, and `ingress.conf` configuration.
```

> The `ingress.conf` is configured to accept only connections from IP address `172.30.32.2` as we are only expecting connections from this IP address for Ingress purposes. Any other IP address will be rejected.  The ingress port 8099 is utilized to reduce configuration work.  If you wish to configure a different ingress port you may, but the `config.json` option `ingress_port` must be defined to match. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `ingress.conf` is configured to accept only connections from IP address `172.30.32.2` as we are only expecting connections from this IP address for Ingress purposes. Any other IP address will be rejected. The ingress port 8099 is utilized to reduce configuration work. If you wish to configure a different ingress port you may, but the `config.json` option `ingress_port` must be defined to match.
```

ingress.conf
```nginx 
server {
    listen 8099;
    allow  172.30.32.2;
    deny   all;
}
```

> Our example `Dockerfile` is configured to support only our Nginx server, and does not support a `run.sh` like most addons.  You may replace the `CMD` with your own command to allow more configuration options while launching your addon.   This Dockerfile will `RUN` to install our Nginx dependencies, `COPY` our example ingress.conf from above to the add-on conatiner, then `CMD` start Nginx.  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Our example `Dockerfile` is configured to support only our Nginx server and does not support a `run.sh` like most add-ons. You may replace the `CMD` with your own command to allow more configuration options while launching your add-on. This Dockerfile will `RUN` to install our Nginx dependencies, `COPY` our example `ingress.conf` from above to the add-on container, then `CMD` start Nginx.
```

Dockerfile
```Dockerfile
ARG BUILD_FROM
FROM $BUILD_FROM
ENV LANG C.UTF-8

#Add nginx and create the run folder for nginx.

> RUN apk add nginx;mkdir -p /run/nginx;

Reviewer: The default run location differs on Alpine, it is not needed to create that folder.
It is advised to use `--no-cache` in general, to keep the resulting image smaller.

```suggestion
RUN apk --no-cache add nginx
```

Author: mkdir -p /run/nginx was required during testing.

Reviewer: I've never needed to use it 😄 But 👍

#Copy our conf into the nginx http.d folder.
COPY ingress.conf /etc/nginx/http.d/
#Launch nginx with debug options.
CMD [ "nginx","-g","daemon off;error_log /dev/stdout debug;" ]
```

In order to enable Ingress, our `config.json` file _must_ include `ingress: true` and _may_ specify the `ingress_port`, along with other required information.

config.json
```json
{
  "name": "Ingress Example",
  "version": "0.00.0.0.000.0.000",
  "slug": "nginx-ingress-example",
  "description": "ingress testing",
  "arch": ["armhf", "armv7", "aarch64", "amd64", "i386"],
  "ingress": true,
  "ingress_port": 8099
}
```

> After the add-on is started, you should be able to view your Ingress server by clicking "OPEN WEB UI" within the add-on info screen. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After the add-on is started, you should be able to view your Ingress server by clicking "OPEN WEB UI" within the add-on info screen.
```

> 
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

# Security

> Add-on security should be a matter of pride. You should strive for the highest level of security you can possibly attain. If your add-on has a lower security rating, then users will be less likely to trust it.  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Add-on security should be a matter of pride. You should strive for the highest level of security you can possibly attain. If your add-on has a lower security rating, then users will be less likely to trust it.
```

> Each addon starts with a base rating of 5, on a scale of 1 to 6. Depending on decisions made during development, you will be assigned a score based on certain actions.   There are some actions which have additional consequences.  These additional consequences appear in the Notes secton of the following table. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Each add-on starts with a base rating of 5, on a scale of 1 to 6. Depending on decisions made during development, you will be assigned a score based on certain actions. There are some actions that have additional consequences. These additional consequences appear in the Notes section of the following table.
```

| Action | Change | Notes |
|---|---|---|

> | Use `ingress: true` in [config.json](/docs/add-ons/configuration#add-on-config) | +2 | overrides `auth_api` rating |
> | Use `auth_api: true` in [config.json](/docs/add-ons/configuration#add-on-config) | +1 | overridden by `ingress` |
> | Use custom [apparmor.txt](/docs/add-ons/presentation#apparmor)| +1| Rating applied after installation |
> | Set `apparmor: false` in [config.json](/docs/add-ons/configuration#add-on-config) | -1 | |
> | Use `privileged: NET_ADMIN`, `SYS_ADMIN`, `SYS_RAWIO`, `SYS_PTRACE`, `SYS_MODULE`, or `DAC_READ_SEARCH` in [config.json](/docs/add-ons/configuration#add-on-config)| -1 | rating applied only once if multiple are used. |
> | Use `hassio_role: manager` in [config.json](/docs/add-ons/configuration#add-on-config) | -1 | |
> | Use `host_network: true` in [config.json](/docs/add-ons/configuration#add-on-config) | -1 | |
> | Use `hassio_role: admin` in [config.json](/docs/add-ons/configuration#add-on-config) | -2 | |
> | Use `host_pid: true` in [config.json](/docs/add-ons/configuration#add-on-config) | -2 | |
> | Use `full_access: true` in [config.json](/docs/add-ons/configuration#add-on-config) | -2 | |
> | Use `docker_api: true` in [config.json](/docs/add-ons/configuration#add-on-config) | Security set to 1 | Overrides all other adjustments |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Use `ingress: true` in [`config.json`](/docs/add-ons/configuration#add-on-config) | +2 | overrides `auth_api` rating |
| Use `auth_api: true` in [`config.json`](/docs/add-ons/configuration#add-on-config) | +1 | overridden by `ingress` |
| Use custom [`apparmor.txt`](/docs/add-ons/presentation#apparmor)| +1| Rating applied after installation |
| Set `apparmor: false` in [`config.json`](/docs/add-ons/configuration#add-on-config) | -1 | |
| Use `privileged: NET_ADMIN`, `SYS_ADMIN`, `SYS_RAWIO`, `SYS_PTRACE`, `SYS_MODULE`, or `DAC_READ_SEARCH` in [`config.json`](/docs/add-ons/configuration#add-on-config)| -1 | Rating applied only once if multiple are used. |
| Use `hassio_role: manager` in [`config.json`](/docs/add-ons/configuration#add-on-config) | -1 | |
| Use `host_network: true` in [`config.json`](/docs/add-ons/configuration#add-on-config) | -1 | |
| Use `hassio_role: admin` in [`config.json`](/docs/add-ons/configuration#add-on-config) | -2 | |
| Use `host_pid: true` in [`config.json`](/docs/add-ons/configuration#add-on-config) | -2 | |
| Use `full_access: true` in [`config.json`](/docs/add-ons/configuration#add-on-config) | -2 | |
| Use `docker_api: true` in [`config.json`](/docs/add-ons/configuration#add-on-config) | Security set to 1 | Overrides all other adjustments |
```

- HTTP/1.x
- Streaming content
- Websockets

Ingress grants your Add-on 2 points of security and can be implemented easily from bash as a separate, no-dependencies, background process with the default home-assistant image, as follows. Please note, this is a basic static webserver setup and provides little benefit over the log tab. Additionally, this implementation has less security than any standard HTTP Framework, but it is intended to run within a controlled environment between the shell script and the Ingress server in Home Assistant, and is not exposed directly to the Internet or any network. 

Place this line somewhere near the top of your run.sh.  This will start a `nc` listening server and run the `/opt/server.sh` each time a user connects to your Ingress. The output from stdout will be displayed as a response from the server. 
``` bash
nc -lk -p 8099 -e  exec /opt/server.sh 3>/dev/null &
```
Create a `rootfs/opt` folder within your Add-on folder. Then create a `server.sh` file in that folder. The server.sh will output the HTTP Headers and HTML required to display information.

/opt/server.sh
```bash
#HTTP Server Headers

> echo -e 'HTTP/1.1 200 OK\r\nServer: DeskPiPro\r\nDate:$(date)\r\nContent-Type: text/html; charset=UTF8\r\nCache-Control: no-store, no cache, must-revalidate\r\n\r\n'

Reviewer: There is really no general use in implementing this in bash. It makes this example unclear and unpractical.

Ingress is meant to pull out the application that is running inside the add-on into the Home Assistant frontend. Not gaining points with a bash script.

Author: Bash is the lowest level which can achieve the stated goal.  Note the use of a log.html file within the server.sh file which is intended to pull information from the application running inside the add-on. 

Additionally, 
- This methodology utilizes 100% built-in methods provided by Home Assistant's busybox and bash. 
- Low power consumption and footprint contribute to fast/lightweight installation
- This adds almost 0 cpu overhead from external binaries such as Python and associated libraries.  
- The above are all important considerations on low power hardware such as RPi and embedded systems in general.

I'm using this technique to display more information than is possible within the log and in a more clear format within the [Run On Startup.d add-on](https://community.home-assistant.io/t/run-on-startup-d/271008).  The alternative would leave my users log-less and reduce the UX, as the built-in logs only scroll so high and lack rich text capability.

Author: How can we make this example more clear?

Reviewer: > Bash is the lowest level that can achieve the stated goal.

That is true, however, it is not a goal common goal for using Ingress.

The goal is to expose an application interface.

Author: I understand that you feel that this is not the way you intended add-ons to implement Ingress.  However, consider the alternative.  Any other example would require recommending additional packages be installed and explaining how they work.  This is the only method which does not require recommending installation of Python, Java, Node, Apache HTTPD, or other heavy-weight package.  This is the rawest form of Ingress we can possibly recommend and gets the users up and running quickly when developing a package intended exclusively for Home Assistant.  

When dealing with repackaging an existing app, setting port 8099 is easy. When bringing up an app exclusively for the Home Assistant environment, this example provides a way to perform mockups and establishes communication within the HA environment.

Author: > The goal is to expose an application interface.
I understand that this is not the intended method of utilization.  However, any other method of explanation requires external dependencies and explanation of those external dependencies.  Eg. setting up a server in Python, NodeJS, Java, Apache HTTPD, or other.  This requires 0-explanation of dependencies and gives the user a method to see immediate results without any additional overhead and because of this, is perfect for a clean example, creating app mockups, and quick-start into the world of Ingress.

Admittedly, as a security engineer, that 2-extra points of security drives me :). Undoubtedly that has an effect on my decisions on how to create my own add-ons.  I feel it should motivate any experienced developer as well. 

I suppose the real question here is how can we explain an example of ingress without recommending a platform, explaining development, going into APIs, or getting too detailed in our example?  Is there another way within HA?  Is there some Hello World of web servers?

Reviewer: > is perfect for a clean example

I'm sorry, in this, we are on totally different pages. It sets an example that is not relevant. And I'm really not going to approve this example for merging.

A similar example could have been given by installing a simple nginx, which has a default page it shows.

Author: Will work on it over the weekend.  You're the boss.

Author: I submitted an Nginx example, but I'm curious as to how you recommend submitting this extra information cleanly.  
---
Since no project is complete without AppArmor, this is an example [apparmor.txt](https://pastebin.adamoutler.com/eZTdgae1uQiH9tmV).  It may be applied to improve security and reduce security risks. Tailoring an apparmor to Ingress can be challenging, but the logs will generally explain any problems encountered.

#HTML Document
echo -e \
"<!DOCTYPE html>\n"\
"<html>\n"\
"<head>\n"\
"<title>Page Title</title>\n"\
"</head>\n"\
"<body>\n"\

# HTML body content
echo "<p>I can haz Ingress?</p>" 
set +e   #The /tmp/status.html file may not be here if you did not create it in your addon. So we set +e to continue execution after errors.  
cat /tmp/status.html 2>/dev/null #throw stderr to /dev/null
set -e #Set -e to continue running in strict mode

# Close up the HTML doc
echo -e \
"</body>\n"\
"</html>\n"\
"\n"
```

# Security

> Add-on security should be a matter of pride. You should strive for the highest level of security you can possibly attain within your skills and your Add-on limitations. If your Add-on has a lower security rating, then users will be less likely to trust it. You can use the following table to adjust your Add-on Security.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Add-on security should be a matter of pride. You should strive for the highest level of security you can possibly attain. If your add-on has a lower security rating, then users will be less likely to trust it. You can use the following table to adjust your add-on security.
```

| Action | Change | Notes |
|---|---|---|

> | Use `ingress: true` in [config.json](https://developers.home-assistant.io/docs/add-ons/configuration#add-on-config) | +2 | overrides `auth_api` rating |

Reviewer: Please, don't use full links.

Author: fixed in [Don't use full url.](https://github.com/home-assistant/developers.home-assistant/pull/789/commits/964527fa952faf16e52abfd59e156d2f2780d88b).
